The ventricles are the bottom
two chambers of our
four-chambered heart.
The left ventricle receives blood
containing oxygen from the
left atrium above it,
and pumps the blood into the aorta,
which carries it to the rest of the body.
Left ventricular hypertrophy
is enlargement of the muscle tissues
in the wall of the left ventricle.
The most common cause is high blood pressure,
which forces the ventricle to work
harder to pump blood to your body.
The increased work load causes
the muscular walls of the ventricle
to become thicker, stiffer and less elastic.
As a result, the ventricle
can have trouble filling properly,
and its blood vessels may be compressed,
reducing the flow of blood to the muscle.
and the muscle may also become weaker.